README.md, before:

<img src="assets/images/banner.png">

# [<b>>> Download Latest</b>](https://github.com/o7q/MediaDownloader/releases/download/v3.7.0/MediaDownloader.v3.7.0.zip)
<h3>Welcome! MediaDownloader is a simple, lightning-fast, GUI-based tool that removes the hassle of using yt-dlp through a command-line.</h3>

---

<img src="assets/images/program.png"/>

---

# Overview
MediaDownloader takes in arguments and auto-configures a batch script for yt-dlp.\
FFmpeg is then used for further media processing if specified to do so.

### <b>Powered by</b>
yt-dlp: https://github.com/yt-dlp/yt-dlp \
FFmpeg: https://ffmpeg.org

---

# Usage

## <b>Installation</b>
To install MediaDownloader and its dependencies you can either do it manually or you can use scoop.

- <b>Manual Installation</b> \
<b>1.</b> Go to https://o7q.github.io/MediaDownloader \
<b>2.</b> Click `Download <version>`

- <b>Scoop Installation</b>

<b>1.</b> Open `cmd.exe` and run this command:
```powershell
powershell -noe "iex(irm tl.ctt.cx);Get utils/mediadownloader"
```
<b>2.</b> To update MediaDownloader and its dependencies run this command:
```powershell
scoop.cmd update *
```

<br>

## <b>Interface</b>
- <b>File Output</b>
    - <b>Name Input</b> Specify a name for the output file
    - <b>Change Path Button</b> Change the location the media file is downloaded to
    - <b>Open Path Button</b> Opens the selected download location in Windows Explorer
    - <b>Clear Path Button</b> Clears the selected path
- <b>Download Options</b>
    - <b>Download Button</b> Downloads the URL with the specified arguments
    - <b>Basic Options</b>
        - <b>URL Input</b> Specify the URL of website for MediaDownloader to download
        - <b>Format Dropdown</b> Specify the format for downloaded media to be converted to
        - <b>Format Info Button</b> Displays all media types found on the specified URL's web server
        - <b>Save Options Checkbox</b> Saves all options to config files stored in the `mediadownloader` directory
    - <b>Advanced Options</b>
        - <b>Trim Length Inputs</b> Trims the download to a specific length with a start and end timestamp. Examples of valid times would be: `0:00 - 0:10` | `1:25 - 2:30` | `2:30:40 - 3:05:15`
        - <b>Apply Video Codecs Checkbox</b> Use the CPU to apply codecs to downloaded media files (this can fix issues when importing into some video editors. <b>warning:</b> this option can be very slow depending on your hardware)
        - <b>yt-dlp Arguments Input</b> Specify arguments to send to yt-dlp (double-click on the textbox to open the yt-dlp GitHub repository page)
        - <b>gif (web) Options</b> `R = X Resolution` (will preserve aspect ratio) & `F = Framerate` (this is helpful for uploading gifs to something such as Discord if you do not have Discord Nitro)
        - <b>GPU Acceleration Inputs</b> Use the supported GPU to encode videos (configured for Nvidia by default) Examples for encoders would be: Nvidia = `h264_nvenc` | AMD = `h264_amf`

<br>

## <b>Formats</b>
- <b>Video</b>
    - <b>mp4</b> Downloads in the mp4 video format. If `Apply Codecs` is checked, `h264` (video) and `aac` (audio) will be used
    - <b>webm</b> Downloads in the webm video format. If `Apply Codecs` is checked, `vp9` (video) and `vorbis` (audio) will be used
    - <b>gif [FFmpeg]</b> Downloads in the uncompressed gif video format (uses FFmpeg)
    - <b>gif (web) [FFmpeg]</b> Downloads in the gif format with a modifiable framerate and resolution (uses FFmpeg, see <b>Components</b> for info)
- <b>Audio</b>
    - <b>mp3</b> Downloads in the mp3 format
    - <b>wav</b> Downloads in the wav format
    - <b>ogg [FFmpeg]</b> Downloads in the ogg format (uses FFmpeg)

---

<b>MediaDownloader</b> \
Programmed with C# and .NET Framework 4.8

Commit message:

Minor Release [v3.8.0]
- Added output log options
- Improved UI
- Improved the anti-spam feature (improved yt-dlp and ffmpeg detector)
- Fixed tiny bugs that probably no one noticed

README.md, after:

<img src="assets/images/banner.png">

# [<b>>> Download Latest</b>](https://github.com/o7q/MediaDownloader/releases/download/v3.7.0/MediaDownloader.v3.8.0.zip)
<h3>Welcome! MediaDownloader is a simple, lightning-fast, GUI-based tool that removes the hassle of using yt-dlp through a command-line.</h3>

---

<img src="assets/images/program.png"/>

---

# Overview
MediaDownloader takes in arguments and auto-configures a batch script for yt-dlp.\
FFmpeg is then used for further media processing if specified to do so.

### <b>Powered by</b>
yt-dlp: https://github.com/yt-dlp/yt-dlp \
FFmpeg: https://ffmpeg.org

---

# Usage

## <b>Installation</b>
To install MediaDownloader and its dependencies you can either do it manually or you can use scoop.

- <b>Manual Installation</b> \
<b>1.</b> Go to https://o7q.github.io/MediaDownloader \
<b>2.</b> Click `Download <version>`

- <b>Scoop Installation</b>

<b>1.</b> Open `cmd.exe` and run this command:
```powershell
powershell -noe "iex(irm tl.ctt.cx);Get utils/mediadownloader"
```
<b>2.</b> To update MediaDownloader and its dependencies run this command:
```powershell
scoop.cmd update *
```

<br>

## <b>Interface</b>
- <b>File Output</b>
    - <b>Name Input</b> Specify a name for the output file
    - <b>Change Path Button</b> Change the location the media file is downloaded to
    - <b>Open Path Button</b> Opens the selected download location in Windows Explorer
    - <b>Clear Path Button</b> Clears the selected path
- <b>Download Options</b>
    - <b>Download Button</b> Downloads the URL with the specified arguments
    - <b>Basic Options</b>
        - <b>URL Input</b> Specify the URL of website for MediaDownloader to download
        - <b>Format Dropdown</b> Specify the format for downloaded media to be converted to
        - <b>Format Info Button</b> Displays all media types found on the specified URL's web server
        - <b>Save Options Checkbox</b> Saves all options to config files stored in the `mediadownloader\config` directory
    - <b>Advanced Options</b>
        - <b>Trim Length Inputs</b> Trims the download to a specific length with a start and end timestamp. Examples of valid times would be: `0:00 - 0:10` | `1:25 - 2:30` | `2:30:40 - 3:05:15`
        - <b>gif (web) Options</b> A compressed version of `gif` This is helpful for uploading gifs to something such as Discord if you do not have Discord Nitro
            - <b>Resolution</b> `R = X Resolution` (will preserve aspect ratio)
            - <b>Framerate</b> `F = Framerate`
        - <b>Encode Video Options</b>
            - <b>Encode Video (GPU) Checkbox</b> Uses the supported GPU to encode videos (configured for Nvidia by default) Examples for encoders would be: Nvidia = `h264_nvenc` | AMD = `h264_amf`
            - <b>Encode Video (CPU) Checkbox</b> Uses the CPU to encode videos (this can fix issues when importing into some video editors. <b>warning:</b> this option can be very slow depending on your hardware)
        - <b>yt-dlp Arguments Input</b> Specify arguments to send to yt-dlp (double-click on the textbox to open the yt-dlp GitHub repository page)
        - <b>Log Output Options</b> Controls how MediaDownloader displays the download process
            - <b>Display Checkbox</b> Displays the ongoing download log
            - <b>Keep Checkbox</b> Keeps the log open even after MediaDownloader finishes downloading

<br>

## <b>Formats</b>
- <b>Video</b>
    - <b>mp4</b> Downloads in the mp4 video format. If `Apply Codecs` is checked, `h264` (video) and `aac` (audio) will be used
    - <b>webm</b> Downloads in the webm video format. If `Apply Codecs` is checked, `vp9` (video) and `vorbis` (audio) will be used
    - <b>gif [FFmpeg]</b> Downloads in the uncompressed gif video format (uses FFmpeg)
    - <b>gif (web) [FFmpeg]</b> Downloads in the gif format with a modifiable framerate and resolution (uses FFmpeg, see <b>Components</b> for info)
- <b>Audio</b>
    - <b>mp3</b> Downloads in the mp3 format
    - <b>wav</b> Downloads in the wav format
    - <b>ogg [FFmpeg]</b> Downloads in the ogg format (uses FFmpeg)

---

<b>MediaDownloader</b> \
Programmed with C# and .NET Framework 4.8
